I, and I imagine many others, have trouble focusing.

I think it's normal for us to struggle with focus in this time of insane speed. Media comes fast and constant, always changing, always something to be read. There're new shows, new things to learn, new games to play. There's _always_ something.

Catlyn and I talk about the fact that we don't have a TV and aren't sucked into the world where the TV is constantly on, unlike the world of our parents. However, are we much better with the constant stream of Hulu or jumping from news aggregator article to article to article?

Carson and I had a great talk the other day about the problem of 'fast journalism', where we're constantly reading smaller, less in depth articles. Carson and I both agreed that we get far more out of our books (I'm reading Jane Jacobs right now, great book!) and our magazines (Linux Voice). I need to put more effort into those than I put into aggregator sites. I should finish that puppet book. 

It's more than the constant stream of media, though. It's also how seemingly busy we are. We regularly meet with friends to play games or go to events. Yesterday was beautiful, in the sense that we did something completely new (art exhibit + walking tour), but we generally fill up Friday, Saturday, and sometimes Sunday, much to my chagrin. The "downtime" element is generally the only time I think about focusing (like right now, when it's Superbowl Sunday and I'm deciding not to go to the superbowl party, but instead remain home). 

I need to focus on my priorities. I'd like to get back in shape (i.e. focus on eating). I'd like to get better with puppet (finish that book, start another). I'd like to work on a few projects. I can't do that toiling away my time reading articles about internet trolls. 
