American cities have a problem of lacking vibrancy. 

You see this in most city neighborhoods, big and small. Sometimes it's a problem of bad zoning DC, for example, has these hideous downtown areas that have no housing or really any interesting commercial entities. You'll walk there at 9PM and just be flabbergasted at how deserted it is, especially if you consider how packed it is at a time like 9AM when workers are piling in for their day. One of the big problems of this single-purpose neighborhood is the commercial establishments that spring up to serve this single group of workers. Since these people don't choose to live in this neighborhood, there lacks a sort of caring as to what the establishments provide. Let's take restaurants for example, since it's just a work lunch, what matters most to these customers: quick service, affordable prices, and a safe experience that they can enjoy again and again. Sandwich shops, burrito places, even fast food thrive for this consumer segment. And of course, this varies on what industry is in town.

Sacramento is an interesting case, I think. It absolutely has the DC issue of having a downtown area full of government buildings and sorely lacking in housing. There're establishments that exist solely for government workers. Some of them are outstanding finds, but a lot of them are average. Unlike DC, Sacramento is geographically much smaller and therefore, a short walk can put you in a more residential-commercial neighborhood that offers a very different experience. If people working off the mall in DC could quickly walk to Georgetown or U St, they too would have the variety the average state worker in Sacramento gets. 

When it comes to the weekends here, it's an interesting juxtaposition, east of 15th street and west of 15th. East, there're some very vibrant pockets of the neighborhood. There're those strolling around the well-designed MARS building, people watching or browsing some of the items in the shops. The new mixed-use developments near Fremont park are full of people walking by. I can think of a good five spots to the East of 15th that one would watch, even in the slowest of seasons (such as now, January), and still see signs of life and an active life, at that. 

West of 15th is another story and luckily, this story is currently changing. I'll start by highlighting the positive to the west: R Street has transformed in just a few years as one strip of commercial hope and a BUNCH of smaller state buildings to a three strip area that, while not connected well, shows a ton more life and a LOT more residential activity. K street has perhaps been Sacramento's biggest undertaking: a big rebranding effort to call it 'the Kay' (no one says this), an influx of new bars and restaurants, and most importantly the building of a new arena that will hopefully fill the neighborhood with vibrancy not seen since the 50s. Past those two corridors, unfortunately, is another story. Take I St just west of where the governor lives. On a Saturday at noon, there is absolutely nothing one can do on this stretch of I. There're a count of at least four large, unoccupied spaces on 13th, 14th, and 15th, at a time when downtown retail is in high demand. Similarly, the sidewalks are deserted, save the homeless and one offs walking around. I think those from societies that have well mixed, interesting public spaces would look at this area in wonder of just what went wrong. 

My hopes are that a lot of the more dead areas west of 15th will develop after the finishing and (hopefully) success of the arena. Theoretically, that should raise real estate prices, and those who're just sitting on these empty lots would be enticed to sell or develop. This is not necessarily the rule, and one worries about the high real estate prices bringing in more mediocre, less risky establishments to the area. We see this battle already in our city: keep out the chains (two chains that moved in a year ago went out of business in about six months!) and stick to the exotic. It's a tough balance to handle. Two years ago three very very expensive apartment complexes rose up near Fremont park. For triple an average rent in the neighborhood, you could live in these new buildings, which were largely targeted at working professionals and older suburbanites moving to the city. We haven't really had much higher end apartments in the area, as it's largely an older housing stock or cookie cutter 70s apartments that most of us live in. Personally, I think this mix is good, as any good place should support a variety of income levels and handle a variety of tastes.

Things move rather slowly when it comes to urban development. These empty areas may likely stay empty for a while longer. I've been here for six years now, and feel like I've seen so much change in this city, from the awakening of an identity in the central city, to a fight to defend that identity. Those who've been here much longer can attest to the fact of the dramatic change in Sacramento's central city. If you wanted dinner at 9PM, you were fresh out of luck, living in the city. Now, there're a myriad of options for any cuisine to choose from available at 9PM and a lot of the opposite is true for many of the previously prevailing suburbs in the area. It's great to see that transition of a city and the trend will hopefully continue in much of the rest of the country, albeit, I will say that the size of Sacramento likely makes it an easier transition, as there is a bit less to undo. Similarly, we have neighborhoods that are over 100 years old, which tends to create a classic identity that gives what we like to call "charm".


